docs/source/rag.rst, before:

.. _rag-documentation:

RAG Documentation
#################

************************************
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
************************************
RAG is a technique that enhances Large Language Model (LLM) responses by retrieving
source information from external data stores to augment generated responses.

This package enables Python developers to perform RAG using Neo4j.


************************************
Overview
************************************

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.retrievers import VectorRetriever
    from neo4j_genai.llm import OpenAILLM
    from neo4j_genai.generation import GraphRAG
    from neo4j_genai.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbeddings

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Create Embedder object
    embedder = OpenAIEmbeddings(model="text-embedding-3-large")

    # Initialize the retriever
    retriever = VectorRetriever(driver, INDEX_NAME, embedder)

    # Initialize the LLM
    # Note: the OPENAI_API_KEY must be in the env vars
    llm = OpenAILLM(model_name="gpt-4o", model_params={"temperature": 0})

    # Initialize the RAG pipeline
    rag = GraphRAG(retriever=retriever, llm=llm)

    # Query the graph
    query_text = "How do I do similarity search in Neo4j?"
    response = rag.search(query_text=query_text, retriever_config={"top_k": 5})
    print(response.answer)


The retriever can be any of the :ref:`supported retrievers<retrievers>`, or any class
inheriting from the `Retriever` interface.

***************
Advanced usage
***************


Using another LLM
==================

This package only provide support for OpenAI LLM. If you need to use another LLM,
you need to subclass the `LLMInterface`:

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.llm.LLMInterface
    :members:
    :show-inheritance:

Configuring the prompt
=======================

Prompt are managed through `PromptTemplate` classes. More
specifically, the `RAG` pipeline uses a `RagTemplate` with
a default prompt. You can use another prompt by subclassing
the `RagTemplate` class and passing it to the `RAG` pipeline
object during initialization:

.. code:: python

    from neo4j_genai.generation import RagTemplate, GraphRAG

    # ...

    prompt_template = RagTemplate(
        prompt="Answer the question {question} using context {context} and examples {examples}",
        expected_inputs=["context", "question", "examples"]
    )
    rag = GraphRAG(retriever=vector_retriever, llm=llm, prompt_template=prompt_template)

    # ...

For more details, see:

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.generation.prompts.PromptTemplate
    :members:

and

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.generation.prompts.RagTemplate
    :members:

Commit message:

Documentation updates (#70)
* 0.2.1 documentation update

* Docstring updates

docs/source/rag.rst, after:

.. _rag-documentation:

RAG Documentation
#################

************************************
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
************************************
RAG is a technique that enhances Large Language Model (LLM) responses by retrieving
source information from external data stores to augment generated responses.

This package enables Python developers to perform RAG using Neo4j.

For more information about different retrieval strategies, see `the API documentation <api.html#retrievers-section>`_.


************************************
Overview
************************************

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.retrievers import VectorRetriever
    from neo4j_genai.llm import OpenAILLM
    from neo4j_genai.generation import GraphRAG
    from neo4j_genai.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbeddings

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "vector-index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Create Embedder object
    embedder = OpenAIEmbeddings(model="text-embedding-3-large")

    # Initialize the retriever
    retriever = VectorRetriever(driver, INDEX_NAME, embedder)

    # Initialize the LLM
    # Note: the OPENAI_API_KEY must be in the env vars
    llm = OpenAILLM(model_name="gpt-4o", model_params={"temperature": 0})

    # Initialize the RAG pipeline
    rag = GraphRAG(retriever=retriever, llm=llm)

    # Query the graph
    query_text = "How do I do similarity search in Neo4j?"
    response = rag.search(query_text=query_text, retriever_config={"top_k": 5})
    print(response.answer)


The retriever can be any of the :ref:`supported retrievers<retrievers>`, or any class
inheriting from the `Retriever` interface.

***************
Advanced usage
***************


Using another LLM
==================

This package only provide support for OpenAI LLM. If you need to use another LLM,
you need to subclass the `LLMInterface`:

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.llm.LLMInterface
    :members:
    :show-inheritance:

Configuring the prompt
=======================

Prompt are managed through `PromptTemplate` classes. More
specifically, the `RAG` pipeline uses a `RagTemplate` with
a default prompt. You can use another prompt by subclassing
the `RagTemplate` class and passing it to the `RAG` pipeline
object during initialization:

.. code:: python

    from neo4j_genai.generation import RagTemplate, GraphRAG

    # ...

    prompt_template = RagTemplate(
        prompt="Answer the question {question} using context {context} and examples {examples}",
        expected_inputs=["context", "question", "examples"]
    )
    rag = GraphRAG(retriever=vector_retriever, llm=llm, prompt_template=prompt_template)

    # ...

For more details, see:

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.generation.prompts.PromptTemplate
    :members:

and

.. autoclass:: neo4j_genai.generation.prompts.RagTemplate
    :members:
